NETS 150 Hw5 Project
COVID-19 News Outlet Analyzer - Maxwell Du and Anna Wang

Welcome to our final project! In our current times, in the throes of a global pandemic, news and media outlets are more salient than ever. While citizens around the world follow stay at home orders, news acts as a source of vital information which we can react to and predict our future livelihoods off of. Media can also show the current mindset and effect of corona on certain regions.

Thus, we thought that it would be interesting to apply the knowledge we learned from NETS 150 such as INFORMATION NETWORKS and DOCUMENT SEARCH to news and media related to COVID-19. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use of Information Networks

Using Jsoup, we parse through and save articles from Google News's COVID-19 section to compare articles of certain dates, regions, and publishers. 

Our program allows the user to filter a set of articles depending on the region of publication, publisher, date of publication, and keywords in title. Then, the user can either list all the articles out, receive a random article, or learn about the optimism/pessimism levels of that article set.


Use of Document Search

For our positivity/negativity calculator, we implemented it in a way similar to what we learned in hw4. We created a document search function which took in a list of positive words and negative words that we found online (http://ptrckprry.com/course/ssd/data/positive-words.txt, http://ptrckprry.com/course/ssd/data/negative-words.txt) and found the term frequency and cosine similarity to calculate the positivity/negativity of that article.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Over the past few weeks, we have been calling and working through Git to collaborate on our project. An issue we ran into but eventually fixed that caused the code not to work was that txt files had different requirements on mac versus pc. We will keep this in mind for future projects. 

Work breakdown:

Anna and Max: Deciding on our project, changing it from our original project of analyzing Youtube content creators via Socialblade
Max: Code framework for sorting and saving COVID-19 articles from google news 
Anna: Add input lists of positive/negative words for document search
Max: Code optimism/pessimism calculator and output basic/advanced results
Anna: Code user interface/interactive questions for user to filter and learn more about a set of articles.
Max: Empirical Analysis
Anna: Summary and user manual